# Discussion, Reflection, and Limitations


# Discussion
As you might remember, we tested the hypothesis: A machine learning classifier will be able to predict group membership and sex based on masked cortical thickness data of 148 regions of interest.

Our hypothesis was examined using a categorical supervised learning algorithm, as expressed in a logistic regression. Other analyses that could have been done as part of this are mentioned in [future directions](https://gretivan.github.io/Neurocognitive_Psychology/general_information/Data_analysis.html#future-directions). The findings of this analysis somewhat support our hypothesis, showing slightly more than a 50% chance accuracy of correct prediction. Thus, we can conclude that cortical thickness differences can be used to predict whether someone has ASD or not, and whether they are a male or a female. These findings are in line with previous research discussed in the [research question conceptualization section](https://gretivan.github.io/Neurocognitive_Psychology/general_information/literature.html). 

However, we must be careful with our interpretation. Our logistic regression score, which returns the mean accuracy on the given test data and labels, was only around 50%. This means that our predictions for the two labels were only correct around 50% of the time. On top of this, our prediction accuracy for the training set, on which our model was based, were, as expected, relatively high. This large difference between our training and our test set would indicate poor generalization of the model, so we are speaking of an overfitting model. Overfitting is a very common issue of deep learning algorithms, by which a model tries to fit the entire training dataset, resulting in memorization of data patterns, including noise and random fluctuations. Which means it can no longer accurately generalize onto another set of data with different patterns of noise or fluctuations. The overfitting in this project probably occurred due to the small dataset, only 150 individuals in each group, and because we only used 2 splits. Splitting the data into more allows for a larger training set, which may have bettered the model when applying it to the test set. 

There are [various methods](https://www.v7labs.com/blog/overfitting) that can be adapted to reduce overfitting. Of these methods, we utilized cross-validation and feature selection. Though, these did not make a big difference in the prediction accuracy. We recommend that future researchers wishing to adapt to this project train a model using more data, and potentially use data augmentation to make each training set look slightly different each time the model tries to process it. 
Overall, we believe that this is a great first step in the assessment of cortical thickness differences in ASD and sex. Unfortunately due to various methodological issues, direct conclusions cannot be drawn. However, the insight that there are some cortical thickness differences, even in individuals whos ASD symptoms and severity is very homogenous, is very valuable. It means that if future researchers get access to larger sets of data which includes low-functioning individuals, that some steps could be taken to use anatomical data in Autism diagnosis. 


# Limitations
As with all pieces of research, we faced some challenges during the execution of this project, which we consider as limitations. As mentioned, during the assessment of the utilized dataset, ABIDE I, we were unable to get access to the more comprehensive ABIDE II data set. The ABIDE I dataset provides more subpar quality in comparison to the data in the ABIDE II dataset. Furthermore, a more methodological limitation concerns the participant's themselves. That being, most if not all the participants in this dataset are individuals with high-function ASD, meaning they present with an IQ above 85. This means that the results presented in this study lack external validity, as they are not generalizable to cohorts of low-function individuals. We know that there are very large differences in behavior and ASD symptoms between individuals with high- and low-functioning ASD which, as seen with differing symptoms in males and females, suggests that there will also be differences in cortical thickness between these individuals, but possibly located in different regions and more substantial. The reason for this limited comprehensiveness of the sample, however, lies in ethics. It is very difficult to acquire MRI data from lower-functioning individuals, as these individuals often have difficulty understanding language and thus instructions to lay still, are constantly moving, and are often not able to give consent for such analyses. In line with this problematic sample - the ratio of female to male participants was very uneven. Thus, we had to significantly reduce the sample, from over 1000 to 311, in order to have even groups of males and females.


# Reflection
This research project presented a huge challenge to me and my skills. Previously to this course, I had had only 6 months of basic coding experience, and was thrown into a project that required much more. Throughout this project, I had to climb several boulders that laid in my way, forcing me to really get into the depths of data analysis using python. Before starting this project I had no idea about artificial intelligence and machine learning, but it was something that sounded very fascinating to me, and that I wanted to learn more about. Despite the looming fear of how difficult this was going to be, I was pleasantly surprised by how well all the content was explained during the lectures, and how valuable conversations with each individual supervisor were in terms of getting a new perspective. 


Throughout this project, I did require a lot of assistance from my peers and my supervisors to get my head around the methods, and even then there are still many things I do not understand. But I have a newfound appreciation for coding, and am truly proud of what I managed to produce. A large section of this book surrounds the preprocessing of data, which is a vital aspect of data analysis, so having learned and understood how this is done is great. I faced a lot more challenges when it came to using bash to transform my brain images, and when setting up my pipeline for logistic regression.


Overall, I can say that I did benefit from a lot of assistance from my peers and the supervisors, but with their explanations I now have a better understanding of why things are done a certain way and what this means. I wish I had had more time to do more, and experiment with more analyses, as it is very rewarding when something works. I believe there is so much more I could, or even can do with my preprocessed data, like doing SVM or a random forest analysis. Thus, I would say this has generally been an experience with a lot of ups and downs, and serious frustrations, but also exciting successes.
